Updates to the Experimental Create Pattern (#342)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/experimental/create-flows/index.mdx

---

> title: Create flow pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create flows
```

Let's keep the title as is just to maintain consistent nomenclature on our side nav. We're working on a better nav bar that will allow more complete titles.

Author: Ok, that's fine by me - Vikki mentioned there migth be abit of a reorganisation going on with the carbon site - we'll be super keen to hear about that @connor-leech

[Vikki Paterson](https://github.com/vikkipaterson)

#### Options:

<AnchorLinks>

  <AnchorLink>Standard creation</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Multistep creation</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Anatomy</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

![Example](images/1.png)

<Caption>Example of a creation pattern.</Caption>

## Standard creation

> Used in simple creation tasks when no stepped guidance is needed and the input fields are directly related to each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard creation is used in simple creation tasks when no stepped guidance is needed and the input fields are directly related to each other.
```
Adjusting to a full sentence.

### Modal

If there are only one or two options to be made during a creation, use a small, standard modal overlaying the content where the creation was initiated. Avoid scrolling inside a small modal.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a standard creation modal.](images/2.png)

<Caption>Example of a standard creation modal.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Side panel

> Consider using a side panel to take advantage of the added real-estate and keep the user in context of where they were working. You may choose to use either the slide in or slide over panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using a side panel to take advantage of the added screen real estate and keep the user in the context of where they are working. You may choose to use either the slide in or slide over panels.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of a side panel creation flow.](images/3.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of a side panel creation flow](images/3.png)
```

> <Caption>Example of a side panel creation flow.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a side panel creation flow</Caption>
```

Captions that aren't full sentences shouldn't finish with a period.

</Column>
</Row>

### Full screen

If your creation flow consists of multiple fields and/or supporting imagery, consider the full screen option to take full advantage of the screen’s available real estate.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a full-page creation flow.](images/4.png)

> <Caption> Example of a full page creation flow. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a full page creation flow.</Caption>
```

Author: Please see previous feedback about visual hierarchy of captions.

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Another example of a full-page creation flow.](images/5.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of a full-page creation flow.](images/5.png)
```

If someone is using a screen reader, using "Another" in the alt text may be contextually confusing.

> <Caption>Another example of a full-page creation flow.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a full-page creation flow</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

## Multistep creation

If the creation task is complex, consider whether breaking the process up into steps could help the user. Consider displaying related or dependant options together.

Multistep creation follows the same principles as [Standard creation](#standard-creation), with the addition of multisteps.

### Side panel

> Consider using a side panel to take advantage of the added real-estate and keep the user in context of where they were working. You may choose to use either the slide in or slide over panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using a side panel to take advantage of the added real estate and keep the user in the context of where they are working. You may choose to use either the slide in or slide over panels.
```

Author: I think we referred to "screen real estate" above, can we use that phrase again here for consistency.

Reviewer: Absolutely! I was just removing the hyphen.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of side panels in a multi-step creation flow.](images/6.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of side panels in a multi-step creation flow](images/6.png)
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Another example of a side panel multi-step creation flow.](images/7.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of a side panel multi-step creation flow](images/7.png)
```

> <Caption>Another example of a side panel multi-step creation flow.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a side panel multi-step creation flow</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Full screen multistep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Full-screen multistep
```

If your creation flow consists of multiple fields and/or supporting imagery, consider the full screen option to take full advantage of the screen’s available real estate.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Start of multistep creation flow](images/8.png)

> <Caption>Start of multistep creation flow.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Start of multistep creation flow</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Multistep creation flow with view all options toggle](images/9.png)

> <Caption>Multistep creation flow with view all options toggle. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Multistep creation flow with view all options toggle</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

## Anatomy

### Button position

> On a larger screen it is recommended that buttons always remain visible to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a larger screen, buttons should always remain visible to the user.
```

Author: yep, good improvement!

Buttons should be located in the top right and should stick upon scrolling.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Button position in context GIF.](images/10.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Button position in context](images/10.gif)
```

Author: Good spot!

<Caption>Buttons should be located top right and stick upon scrolling.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Button position in context.](images/11.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Button position in context](images/11.png)
```

> <Caption>Buttons should be located in the top right. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Buttons should be located in the top right</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Button position in context when scrolling.](images/12.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Button position in context when scrolling](images/12.png)
```

> <Caption>Buttons should stick upon scrolling. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Buttons should stick upon scrolling.</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

> When the full screen dialog is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the full-screen dialog is viewed in mobile, the buttons are positioned at the bottom of the screen.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Button position in context on mobile.](images/13.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Button position in context on mobile](images/13.png)
```

> <Caption>Example of full-page option on mobile.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of full-page option on mobile</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>
<DoDontExample type="do" caption="Buttons should stick upon scrolling so they are always visible.">

![Buttons should stick upon scrolling so they are always visible.](/images/14a.png)

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>

> <DoDontExample type="do" caption="If an illustration or image is displayed then buttons should be displayed above the image.">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<DoDontExample type="do" caption="If an illustration or image is displayed, buttons should be displayed above the image.">
```

> ![If an illustration or image is displayed on the right then buttons should be displayed above the image.](/images/14b.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![If an illustration or image is displayed on the right, buttons should be displayed above the image.](/images/14b.png)
```

</DoDontExample>
</Column>
</Row>

> ### Including an illustration/image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Including an image or illustration
```

> If including a supporting image or illustration, the recommended place is on the right hand side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If including a supporting image or illustration, place the image on the right-hand side.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of supporting image placement.](images/15.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of supporting image placement](images/15.png)
```

> <Caption>Example of supporting image placement.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of supporting image placement</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

### Show all available options toggle

> The toggle should be used to avoid overwhelming users, whilst still allowing users the ability to access everything. It can be applied to the [side panel](#side-panel) and the [full screen](#full-screen) dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toggle should be used to avoid overwhelming users, while still allowing users to access all options. It can be applied to the [side panel](#side-panel) and the [full screen](#full-screen) dialog.
```

> Consider by default having a minimal set of options visible, with the ability for the user to chose if they want to expose more (optional) options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider having a minimal set of options visible by default, offering the ability to chose if the user wants to expose more options.
```

Author: Spelling mistake here - "chose" should be "choose" - sorry 😂

> If the user switches to this mode, ideally remember this for when they next perform the same task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user switches to this mode, remember this for when they next perform the same task.
```

<Row>
<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>

> ![Show all options off.](images/16.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Show all options off](images/16.png)
```

> <Caption>Show all options off.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Show all options off</Caption>
```

</Column>

<Column colMd={4} colLg={6}>

> ![Show all options on.](images/17.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Show all options on](images/17.png)
```

<Caption>Show all options on.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Show all options off.](images/18.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Show all options off](images/18.png)
```

> <Caption>Show all options off. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Show all options off</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Show all options on.](images/19.png)

> <Caption>Show all options on. </Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Show all options on</Caption>
```

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Show all options on and grouped.](images/20.png)

<Caption>Show all options on and grouped. </Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Confirmation

> When any create action is a success, a notification banner can be presented to visually confirm this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A notification banner can be presented to visually confirm when any create action is a success.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a successful creation confirmation](images/27.png)

> <Caption>Example of a successful creation confirmation.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a successful creation confirmation</Caption>
```
